NOT READY FOR REVIEW: X repo types (#5304)
algorand/go-algorand: tools/x-repo-types/README.md

# Cross Repo Type Comparisons

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Given two types in separate repositories X and Y, compare the types and generate a report of any differences to the serialized shape of the types. In particular it ignores different embedding of structs, different field names if `codec` tags are used, and different types if they map to the same primitives.

This tool is designed to be used in CI systems to alert us if a change is made to one repo without a corresponding change to another. For example the Genesis type in go-algorand and go-algorand-sdk. See the Makefile for additional examples.
```

Author: Thanks - will take inspiration from these additions.

Author: cf. 986b132ed20ebe230ae8467c7676bf46837f1fd8

* if **X** and **Y** are native simple types (`int`, `uint64`, `string`, ...), they are _identical_ IFF they are the same type
* if both **X** and **Y** are compound types (`struct`, slice, `map`, ...) with each of their child types being _identical_ and with _equivalent serialization metadata_, then they are _identical_
  * _equivalent serialization metadata_ definition:
    * for non-structs: there is no metadata so the metadata are _trivially_ identical
    * for structs:
      * the keys will encode to the same name
      * omission of values based on zeroness, etc. will happen in the same way for both structs
      * embedded structs will be flattened

* ELSE: they are **not** _identical_

### Exceptional cases

There are some cases that break the definition above. For example, `basics.MicroAlgos` is a struct in
`go-algorand` but is an alias for `uint64` in `go-algorand-sdk`. Our serializers know to produce the same
output, but this violates the previous notion of _identical_. Such exceptions are handled by providing the string produced by the type's `TypeNode.String()` method

> as en element in the set `diffExclusions` of `typeAnalyzer/typeAnalyzer.go`.

Author: ```suggestion
as an element in the set `diffExclusions` of `typeAnalyzer/typeAnalyzer.go`.
```

# Cross Repo Type Comparisons

Given two types **X** and **Y** from separate repositories, compare the types and generate a report of any differences to the serialized shape of the types. In particular it ignores different embedding of structs, different field names if `codec` tags are used, and different types if they map to the same primitives.
This tool is designed to be used in CI systems to alert us if a change is made to one repo without a corresponding change to another. For example the `Genesis` type in `go-algorand` and `go-algorand-sdk`. See the [Makefile](./Makefile) for additional examples.

## Build the `xrt` binary

```sh
make build-xrt
```

## Example run

```sh
./xrt --x-repo "github.com/algorand/go-algorand" \
    --x-package "github.com/algorand/go-algorand/ledger/ledgercore" \
    --x-type "StateDelta" \

>     --y-repo "github.com/algorand/go-algorand-sdk/v2@develop" \

Reviewer 2: typo? I don't see `y-repo` arg in rootCmd

Author: Need to look into this.

Author: Seems to be a weird artifact. The [current commit](https://github.com/algorand/go-algorand/blob/73318220e88daff8085a175d9b0171688d6aa80b/tools/x-repo-types/Makefile#L10-L15) no longer has `y-repo`:

Reviewer 2: then it is a typo. it's in the README.

Author: Dohhh, thx!

Author: fix in [5c1777f](https://github.com/algorand/go-algorand/pull/5304/commits/5c1777f4e639d7d1ed12c8cd66ab65cbb1489d29)

  * _equivalent serialization metadata_ definition:
    * for non-structs: there is no metadata so the metadata are _trivially_ identical
    * for structs:
      * the keys will encode to the same name
      * omission of values based on zeroness, etc. will happen in the same way for both structs
* ELSE: they are **not** _identical_

### Exceptional cases

There are some cases that break the definition above. For example, `basics.MicroAlgos` is a struct in
`go-algorand` but is an alias for `uint64` in `go-algorand-sdk`. Our serializers know to produce the same
output, but this violates the previous notion of _identical_. Such exceptions are handled by providing the string produced by the type's `Type.String()` method
as en element in the set `diffExclusions` of `xrt_tmpl.go`.

## For developing this tool

`xrt_tmpl.go` is provided for ease of development, but is not strictly required for running the tool. You can
run it as a standalone app and debug the algorithms with it. To run `xrt_tmpl.go`:

1. Rename its `Main()` function to `main()` (and to pass compilation, rename `xrt.go`'s `main()`)
2. Replace the `xpkg, ypkg` imports with the packages you want to test

> 3. Replace `x, y` by the types you'd like to take the diff

Author: ```suggestion
3. Replace `x, y` by the types whose diff you are taking
```
